Hello and welcome back.
Hope you're enjoying using Pinyin and for it really makes using sequel much easier compared to directly
working on the command prompt.
Or possibly as well.
OK so today we will be taking a look at the WHERE condition the next logical step after displaying the
results is to find a way to display specific results.
Only the ones we are interested in.
This is the exact purpose of where clause in a school.
The structure of the Querrey in a school is as follows.
First we select some data then we specify from which table it comes and then we narrow down the data
by using a WHERE condition.
So to begin with let's quickly create a new query.
So all we need to do is like right click your select query tool and then legist open table's menu.
Open the consumer complaints all the columns just so it's easier to work directly with this table.
So as our first example let's quickly write select query.
Just a simple select from query and select all the product names.
And issues that these products have from consumer complaints.
Now if we run this all with the square he does it displays a table with two columns product name and
issue from consumer complaints.
It will despite our sixty five point five thousand rows of data.
Basically it will get us from all the products and all the issues these products have.
So as you can see exactly what it does and if we just given this out a bit we can see that is all true
and correct.
But now let's say you are only interested in products and the issues these products have that come from
the state of New York in order to do this.
We implement the WHERE statement.
So what we do here is we write the where then we say state name and then we put equals New York.
So now if we execute it what ill would turn to us it will in turn only 4.4 files and rows of data.
And as you can see it performed much quicker this time.
So what happens here is that it scans for all the columns through the whole table of consumer complaints
and through product name and issue specifically.
But then it also puts a condition that the state name has to be New York.
And because this is nicely organized they they set all the state names consist of two letters.
So it's pretty easy for us to find all the products from any state we want.
And this particular example is from New York just to demonstrate to you.
Let's quickly display the state name on the data output window again as well.
So now as you can see the state name will be New York and the blue scroll down we can make sure that
that's all New York and hopefully you now understand the logic behind the ware query because the understanding
of the logic behind the simplest Eskew or queries is what separates actual users and ask yields masters
that you will soon surely become.
Ok so now I'll give you a bit more difficult example.
And let's imagine that your boss asks you to display the companies and the products that these companies
make that received complaints on the same day that they were sent for me.
This is actually a very interesting topic since every time I sent an email to customer support I always
wondered does it take them long to receive my email or are they just taking their sweet time to answer
it.
So again as always let's try to first and then defy our key elements in this example.
It's company product name.
They receive it and they are sent.
So we'll be working with four elements.
So let's go and quickly create a new query just by right clicking anywhere and selecting queries from
the dropdown menu.
And now let's actually get to our favorite part actually writing the query.
So first we select the company and product name then we select where from.
In this case consumer complaints as always because we only have one table to work with right now and
then we add the word statement in which we're saying that that they receive has to be equal to the date
sent.
And let's quickly run this query.
It will have to return to us a table of two columns with I'm expecting less than sixty five point five
thousand rows.
And as you can see it tells only about 50000 rows and this is what we get.
So to demonstrate how this process works.
Again let's quickly go and add the data received and they sent to a select statement.
This will just make it a bit easier to demonstrate what the query has done for us.
So right now it will turn towards a table of four columns and then they'd received and they'd send has
to be identical in every single line.
And as you can see if we scroll down we will see that a read date received corresponds to the same data
sent inside one line.
So any row has to have exactly the same.
They do Tifft and they send as you can see different rows can have different values.
And for example this one was sent on the first of August this final ascent of 23rd of July.
But inside throe they have to be the same and that's exactly what we needed.
OK.
I hope you feel confident around the work clothes and ask you all since it's important to understand
the logic behind the queries because this way you will be able to solve any problem any task that comes
your way.
And that's exactly what we want to achieve.
I hope you enjoyed this lecture and I'll see you in the next one.